<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [q-bio.BM](#q-bio.BM) [Total: 1]


<div id='q-bio.BM'></div>

# q-bio.BM [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [Identifying critical residues of a protein using meaningfully-thresholded Random Geometric Graphs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10015)
*Chuqiao Zhang,Sarath Chandra Dantu,Debarghya Mitra,Dalia Chakrabarty*

Main category: q-bio.BM

TL;DR: 论文提出了三种识别蛋白质关键残基的方法，并通过分子动力学模拟跟踪蛋白质的演变。


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: 识别蛋白质中的关键残基对理解其功能至关重要。

Method: 基于随机几何图（RGG）学习，利用残基对状态变量间的相关性和动态变化来定义关键性。

Result: 三种方法能够有效识别关键残基，并与实验结果一致。

Conclusion: 三种方法为蛋白质关键残基识别提供了新视角和工具。

Abstract: Identification of critical residues of a protein is actively pursued, since
such residues are essential for protein function. We present three ways of
recognising critical residues of an example protein, the evolution of which is
tracked via molecular dynamical simulations. Our methods are based on learning
a Random Geometric Graph (RGG) variable, where the state variable of each of
156 residues, is attached to a node of this graph, with the RGG learnt using
the matrix of correlations between state variables of each residue-pair. Given
the categorical nature of the state variable, correlation between a residue
pair is computed using Cramer's V. We advance an organic thresholding to learn
an RGG, and compare results against extant thresholding techniques, when
parametrising criticality as the nodal degree in the learnt RGG. Secondly, we
develop a criticality measure by ranking the computed differences between the
posterior probability of the full graph variable defined on all 156 residues,
and that of the graph with all but one residue omitted. A third parametrisation
of criticality informs on the dynamical variation of nodal degrees as the
protein evolves during the simulation. Finally, we compare results obtained
with the three distinct criticality parameters, against
experimentally-ascertained critical residues.

</details>
