<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [q-bio.BM](#q-bio.BM) [Total: 3]


<div id='q-bio.BM'></div>

# q-bio.BM [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [MegaFold: System-Level Optimizations for Accelerating Protein Structure Prediction Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.20686)
*Hoa La,Ahan Gupta,Alex Morehead,Jianlin Cheng,Minjia Zhang*

Main category: q-bio.BM

TL;DR: Error


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: Error

Method: Error

Result: Error

Conclusion: Error

Abstract: Protein structure prediction models such as AlphaFold3 (AF3) push the
frontier of biomolecular modeling by incorporating science-informed
architectural changes to the transformer architecture. However, these advances
come at a steep system cost, introducing: compute- and memory-intensive
operators, 2D attention mechanisms, and retrieval-augmented data pipelines,
which collectively hinder the scalability of AF3 training. In this work, we
present MegaFold, a cross-platform system to accelerate AF3 training. MegaFold
tackles key bottlenecks through ahead-of-time caching to eliminate GPU idle
time from the retrieval-augmented data pipeline, Triton-based kernels for
memory-efficient EvoAttention on heterogeneous devices, and deep fusion for
common and critical small operators in AF3. Evaluation on both NVIDIA H200 and
AMD MI250 GPUs shows that MegaFold reduces peak memory usage of AF3 training by
up to 1.23$\times$ and improves per-iteration training time by up-to
1.73$\times$ and 1.62$\times$ respectively. More importantly, MegaFold enables
training on 1.35$\times$ longer sequence lengths compared to PyTorch baselines
without running out-of-memory, significantly improving the scalability of
modern protein folding models. We open source our code at
https://github.com/Supercomputing-System-AI-Lab/MegaFold/.

</details>


### [2] [Bridging Classical Molecular Dynamics and Quantum Foundations for Comprehensive Protein Structural Analysis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.20830)
*Don Roosan,Rubayat Khan,Tiffany Khou,Saif Nirzhor,Fahmida Hai,Brian Provencher*

Main category: q-bio.BM

TL;DR: Error


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: Error

Method: Error

Result: Error

Conclusion: Error

Abstract: The objective of this paper is to investigate the structural stability,
dynamic properties, and potential interactions among Amyloid Precursor Protein
(APP), Tau, and Alpha-synuclein through a series of molecular dynamics
simulations that integrate publicly available structural data, detailed
force-field parameters, and comprehensive analytical protocols. By focusing on
these three proteins, which are each implicated in various neurodegenerative
disorders, the study aims to elucidate how their conformational changes and
interprotein contact sites may influence larger biological processes. Through
rigorous evaluation of their folding behaviors, energetic interactions, and
residue-specific functions, this work contributes to the broader understanding
of protein aggregation mechanisms and offers insights that may ultimately guide
therapeutic intervention strategies.

</details>


### [3] [CovDocker: Benchmarking Covalent Drug Design with Tasks, Datasets, and Solutions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.21085)
*Yangzhe Peng,Kaiyuan Gao,Liang He,Yuheng Cong,Haiguang Liu,Kun He,Lijun Wu*

Main category: q-bio.BM

TL;DR: 提出了一个名为CovDocker的共价对接基准，用于更准确地预测共价结合位点并进行分子转换建模。


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: 现有对接方法和深度学习技术难以处理共价键的形成及结构变化，因此需要一种新方法来填补这一空白。

Method: 将共价对接过程分解为三个任务：反应位点预测、共价反应预测和共价对接，并采用Uni-Mol和Chemformer等先进模型建立基线性能。

Result: 基准测试在预测相互作用位点和分子转换建模方面表现出色，验证了其在推动共价药物设计研究中的严谨性。

Conclusion: CovDocker为共价药物发现提供了数据驱动方法，解决了治疗开发中的关键挑战。

Abstract: Molecular docking plays a crucial role in predicting the binding mode of
ligands to target proteins, and covalent interactions, which involve the
formation of a covalent bond between the ligand and the target, are
particularly valuable due to their strong, enduring binding nature. However,
most existing docking methods and deep learning approaches hardly account for
the formation of covalent bonds and the associated structural changes. To
address this gap, we introduce a comprehensive benchmark for covalent docking,
CovDocker, which is designed to better capture the complexities of covalent
binding. We decompose the covalent docking process into three main tasks:
reactive location prediction, covalent reaction prediction, and covalent
docking. By adapting state-of-the-art models, such as Uni-Mol and Chemformer,
we establish baseline performances and demonstrate the effectiveness of the
benchmark in accurately predicting interaction sites and modeling the molecular
transformations involved in covalent binding. These results confirm the role of
the benchmark as a rigorous framework for advancing research in covalent drug
design. It underscores the potential of data-driven approaches to accelerate
the discovery of selective covalent inhibitors and addresses critical
challenges in therapeutic development.

</details>
