<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [cond-mat.soft](#cond-mat.soft) [Total: 1]


<div id='cond-mat.soft'></div>

# cond-mat.soft [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [Knotted DNA Configurations in Bacteriophage Capsids: A Liquid Crystal Theory Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.10410)
*Pei Liu,Zhijie Wang,Tamara Christiani,Mariel Vazquez,M. Carme Calderer,Javier Arsuaga*

Main category: cond-mat.soft

TL;DR: 论文提出了一种数学模型，用于研究噬菌体DNA在病毒衣壳中的排列和拓扑结构，通过模拟液晶体中的向量场和线条，引入随机扰动来生成DNA的结结构。


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: 研究噬菌体DNA在衣壳中的排列和拓扑复杂性，填补了现有数学模型的空白。

Method: 采用向量场和线条的数学模型，结合Oseen-Frank能量最小化，通过随机扰动模拟DNA结的形成。

Result: 模型生成的结分布与实验数据一致，验证了方法的有效性。

Conclusion: 该研究结合建模、分析和计算，为病毒DNA组织研究提供了新工具。

Abstract: Bacteriophages, viruses that infect bacteria, store their micron long DNA
inside an icosahedral capsid with a typical diameter of 40 nm to 100 nm.
Consistent with experimental observations, such confinement conditions induce
an arrangement of DNA that corresponds to a hexagonal chromonic
liquid-crystalline phase, and increase the topological complexity of the genome
in the form of knots. A mathematical model that implements a chromonic
liquid-crystalline phase and that captures the changes in topology has been
lacking. We adopt a mathematical model that represents the viral DNA as a pair
of a vector field and a line. The vector field is a minimizer of the total
Oseen-Frank energy for nematic liquid crystals under chromonic constraints,
while the line is identified with the tangent to the field at selected
locations, representing the central axis of the DNA molecule. The fact that the
Oseen-Frank functional assigns infinite energy to topological defects (point
defects in two dimensions and line defects in three dimensions) precludes the
presence of singularities and, in particular, of knot structures. To address
this issue, we begin with the optimal vector field and helical line, and
propose a new algorithm to introduce knots through stochastic perturbations
associated with splay and twist deformations, modeled by means of a Langevin
system. We conclude by comparing knot distributions generated by the model and
by interpreting them in the context of previously published experimental
results. Altogether, this work relies on the synergy of modeling, analysis and
computation in the study of viral DNA organization in capsids.

</details>
