<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [q-bio.QM](#q-bio.QM) [Total: 1]


<div id='q-bio.QM'></div>

# q-bio.QM [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [Quantification of protein homodimer affinity using native mass spectrometry](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.08324)
*Jonathan Schulte,Eric Schwegler,Ute A. Hellmich,Nina Morgner*

Main category: q-bio.QM

TL;DR: 论文介绍了一种定量激光诱导液体珠离子解吸质谱（qLILBID-MS）技术，用于准确测定蛋白质/蛋白质相互作用的亲和力，特别是适用于均聚物复合物。


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: 生物过程依赖于生物大分子间的精细相互作用，而传统的亲和力测定方法存在局限性。qLILBID-MS旨在克服这些限制。

Method: 通过样品稀释和共价交联分别分析每种寡聚物的电荷状态分布，解决质谱信号重叠问题。

Result: qLILBID-MS成功测定了牛血清白蛋白和Tryparedoxin的亲和力，并捕捉到突变对二聚体亲和力的影响。

Conclusion: qLILBID-MS是一种高效、灵敏且成本低的替代方法，可加速药物发现流程。

Abstract: Biological processes rely on finely tuned homo- and heteromeric interactions
between (biomacro)molecules. The strength of an interaction, typically given by
the dissociation constant (KD), plays a crucial role in basic research and must
be monitored throughout the development of drugs and agrochemicals. An ideal
method for KD determination is applicable to various analytes with a large
range of affinities, tolerates complex matrix compositions, does not require
labeling, and simultaneously provides information on the structural integrity
of the binding partners. Native mass spectrometry meets these criteria but
typically struggles with homooligomeric complexes due to overlapping mass
signals. To overcome this, we resolve monomer/dimer contributions to
overlapping MS-peaks by separately analyzing the charge state distribution of
each oligomeric species via sample dilution and covalent crosslinking.
Following this approach, we show that quantitative Laser-Induced Liquid Bead
Ion Desorption mass spectrometry (qLILBID-MS) accurately captures the
affinities of Bovine Serum Albumin and chemically induced dimers of
Tryparedoxin, an oxidoreductase from human pathogenic Trypanosoma brucei
parasites, with various molecular glues and homodimer affinities. Conveniently,
qLILBID-MS requires a fraction of sample used by other methods such as
isothermal titration calorimetry and yields previously inaccessible protein
homodimer KDs in the high micromolar range, which allowed us to monitor the
gradual decrease in homodimer affinity via mutation of crucial dimer interface
contacts. Overall, qLILBID-MS is a sensitive, robust, fast, scalable, and
cost-effective alternative to quantify protein/protein interactions that can
accelerate contemporary drug discovery workflows, e.g. the efficient screening
for proximity inducing molecules like proteolysis targeting chimera and
molecular glues.

</details>
